Alex I went all around the internet I
read heaps of blogs I watched all the
YouTube videos and I'm totally confused
about IELTS there's so much
contradictory information out there I
just don't know what is real anymore
yes this is a big problem so let's bust
10 IELTS myths
yes myth number one you can jump from
five point five to eight with these
three tips tricks words or hacks
apparently if I use the word plethora
plethora I will get an IELTS nine you
can go from five point five to eight but
it is not with these three tips or hats
or tricks going from five point five to
eight it's gonna take you quite a long
time you need to start with what your
problems are and overcome them there is
no magic blitz I'm afraid to say it
takes a really good teacher
very good preparation and some hard work
yeah true myth number two the more
complex your writing is the higher your
score will be yeah this is kind of true
complex doesn't mean complicated or
convoluted what complex means here is
that you write complex sentences these
are a particular type of sentence which
you can learn about in the description
below but you don't want to make your
writing complex in terms of being hard
to understand myth number three don't
use I in your essay
[Music]
don't let me ask you a question do you
think all children should play sport in
school
it is believed by the person writing
this essay that children should so you
can see how complicated that is I don't
know what you think it was bad in the
IELTS essay you're often asked a
question do you agree or disagree to
what extent do you agree or disagree
what's your view so the question is
asking you what do you think tell the
examiner I think I believe I feel it's
totally fine and in fact if the examiner
gets to the end of your essay doesn't
know what you think
you risk scoring a ban three myth number
four don't give your opinion okay so
when you're writing the essay and it
asks for your opinion you should
definitely give your opinion if it
doesn't ask for your opinion you don't
need to give your opinion simple as that
but just to be clear if it does ask for
your opinion give your opinion and it
doesn't necessarily have to be what you
believe just write whatever it is most
easy easiest easiest myth number five
you can answer the reading questions
without reading the text no you can't
you're gonna use skimming and scanning
to deal with the reading test but the
test has been designed to force you to
read and in fact in IELTS careful
reading is the most important thing so
yes you're gonna use strategies but if
you are practicing with authentic test
materials or Cambridge level materials
you'll see that you do have to read to
answer the questions myth number six the
more linking words you use the better
[Music]
okie-dokie so some people have said that
the more that you use words like
therefore or as a result or consequently
the better your score will be this is
not true in the criteria the thing
the examiners look at when they're
assessing your writing it says don't
overuse and don't under use linking
words so you just want to find the right
number of these words in your essay
which is more likely to be about three
or four and you say maximum don't
overuse them and don't under use them
don't forget the little words like it
and baby yes that's good cohesion myth
number seven don't use contractions in
writing this one there is a little gray
area so if we're talking about the essay
or academic task 1 or general task 1
formal letters then yet don't use
contractions but I'm talking to the
people who are doing general in your
task 1 sometimes you have to write a
letter to a friend and in that kind of
letter you have to use contractions in
fact you can't convey a casual tone
without contractions so most of the time
no contractions but general tasks one
letter to a friend use them what about
if I am speaking with the examiner shall
I not use contractions use contractions
in your speaking ok myth number 8 the
quicker you speak the higher your
fluency score will be this is not true
when you're doing your IELTS speaking
test you should speak at a moderate pace
which is not too quickly and not too
slowly
simple as that myth number 9 don't
repeat vocabulary this is not true you
have to repeat vocabulary if you're
writing about sport or about children or
about advertising you have to use those
words more than once or your writing
will sound crazy
so don't overuse vocabulary don't use
the same word three or four times in one
sentence or four or five times in one
paragraph but repeating vocabulary and
also repeating
a capillary which is in the question is
totally fine some words you actually
can't create a synonym for right like a
word like banana not that you'll have to
write about a banana bit there's no
other word for the banana unless you use
yellow curved fruit for example which
doesn't make any sense
myth number 10 it's all a trick okay so
the IELTS test is not a trick
it is however extremely challenging
there's no doubt about that right
it's a tough test it really is and it
really does precisely measure your
English language levels so if you aren't
getting the school you need then you
should do something about it and prepare
properly build your fundamental skills
in grammar vocabulary Asian as well as
do some proper test preparation mm-hmm
it's easy to get frustrated and waste a
lot of energy worrying about conspiracy
theories and traps and treats yeah it is
a waste of your time to do that trust in
the test make sure that you are dealing
with quality teachers who are using
quality material and you can do it the
test preparation you can trust
join us at eetu language comm
[Music]